cinema synopses spoiler alert Tony Stark
recalls a New Year's Eve party in 1999
where he meets scientist Maya Henson I
also want to see your research the
inventor of extremists an experimental
regenerative treatment intended to allow
recovery from crippling injuries
disabled scientist Aldrich Killian
offers them a place in his company
advanced idea mechanics but stark
rejects the offer humiliating Killian
sleep on the roof in five minutes years
later months after the Battle of New
York Starks experiences during the alien
invasion are giving him panic attacks
you've experienced a severe anxiety
attack Restless he has built several
dozen Iron Man suits in my suit stir
they're partly creating friction with
his girlfriend Pepper Potts meanwhile a
string of bombings by a terrorist known
only as the Mandarin has left
intelligence agencies bewildered by a
lack of forensic evidence you don't know
and you'll never see me coming
Stark security chief happy Hogan is
badly injured in a Mandarin attack
causing Stark to issue a televised
threat to the Mandarin I know you're a
coward so I've decided that you just
died pal who responds by destroying
Starks home with helicopter gunships
do we need to worry about that Henson
all binders pal
who came to warn Stark survives the
attack along with Potts
agent Stark escapes in an Iron Man suit
which is artificial intelligence
Jarvis pilots to rural Tennessee I just
stole the poncho from following a flight
plan from Starks investigation into the
Mandarin Starks experimental armor lacks
sufficient power to return to California
and the world believes him dead teaming
with Harley a precocious ten-year-old
boy Stark investigates the remains of a
local explosion bearing the hallmarks of
a Mandarin attack he discovers the
bombings were triggered by soldiers
subjected to extremists which at this
stage of development caused certain
subjects to explosively reject the
treatment after veterans started
exploding these explosions were falsely
attributed to a terrorist plot in order
to cover up extremists loss the slaves
are sent to kill ourselves
stark witnesses extremists firsthand
when Mandarin agents Brent and seven
attack him Kilian has manipulated
American intelligence agencies regarding
the mandarins location luring James
Rhodes the former war machine now
rebranded as the iron patriot into a
trap
to steal the armor with Harley's help
Stark traces the Mandarin to Miami and
infiltrates his headquarters using
improvised weapons
in Miami inside he discovers the
Mandarin is actually an English actor
named Trevor Slattery who says he is
oblivious to the actions carried out in
his image do you need someone
Kilian who appropriated Henson's
extremist research as a cure for his own
disability and expanded the program to
include injured War veterans reveals he
is the real Mandarin using Slattery as a
cover after capturing Stark Killian
shows him Potts whom he had kidnapped
being subjected to extremists
desperation anything gives up that
Nations is quite spectacular in order to
gain Starks aid to fix extreme is's
flaws and thus saved pots Killian kills
Henson when she is a change of heart and
tries to stop him
the good news is a high-level position
has just been vacated you Romania dark
escapes and reunites with Rhodes this is
the Mandarin it's embarrassing
discovering that Killian intends to
attack president Ellis aboard Air Force
One they're using the iron Patriot as a
Trojan horse stark saves some surviving
passengers and crew but cannot stop
Killian from abducting Ellis and
destroying Air Force One they trace
Killian to an impounded damaged oil
tanker welcome aboard mr. president
where Killian intends to kill Ellis on
live television
the vice president will become a puppet
leader following Killians orders in
exchange for extremists to cure his
young daughters disability on the
platform Stark goes to save pots so I'm
located responses road saves the
president mr. president I'm gonna need
that suit back Stark's summons his Iron
Man suits controlled remotely by Jarvis
to provide air support Rhodes secures
the president and takes him to safety
while stark discovers Potts has survived
the extremis procedure
however before he can save her a rig
collapses around them and she falls to
her apparent death
Starck confronts Killian and traps him
in an Iron Man suit that self-destructs
do me a favor and blow mark 42 but fails
to kill him Potts whose extremist powers
allowed her to survive her fall
intervenes and kills Killian after the
battle stark orders Jarvis to remotely
destroy each iron man suit as a sign of
his devotion to Potts while the vice
president and Slattery are arrested with
Starks help
potus's extremis effects are stabilized
and as promised I got pepper sorted out
Stark undergoes surgery to remove the
shrapnel embedded near his heart that
was the best sleep I've had in years he
pitches his obsolete chest arc reactor
into the sea musing he will always be
Iron Men I am Iron Man in a present-day
post-credit scene Wow
I had no idea you were such a good
listener Stark wakes up dr. Bruce Banner
who fell asleep listening to his story
where did I lose you elevator in
Switzerland so you heard I keep watching
for some fun Easter eggs in trivia from
Iron Man 3 in the comics Ellen Brant is
an agent of aim who tried to steal from
biochemist Ted Sallis who turned into
the supernatural man thing and burned
her face off in the film she is just
sent in pursuit of Stark however she has
minor scars on her face in an homage to
her comic betrayal when Maya Tony and
pepper are discussing the huge stuffed
bunny in the living room tony has hung
walking for his Jarvis the stalking just
so happens to be the same colors as
vision the Android into which Tony and
Bruce turned Jarvis in the Avengers age
of Ultron movie the dragon tattoos on
aldrick Killians chest are of another
Iron Man villain Fin Fang Foom
when Tony Stark's mentioned is being
blown up by the Mandarin and to save
Pepper Potts
he sends the Iron Man suit to cover her
to rescue her and then immediately after
she comes over to rescue him this is an
allusion to the brief period in the
comics when Pepper Potts gets her own
Iron Man suit and is dubbed rescue the
character of US president Ellis is named
after comic book writer Warren Ellis who
wrote the 2005 Iron Man story arc
extremists which this movie is based on
Iron Man creator Stan Lee does his usual
Marvel cameo as a beauty pageant judge
released in 2013 this film marks the
50th anniversary of iron men
[Music]